P&C CUSTOMER SERVICES INSIGHTS AND SERVICE EXPERT

DATA ANALYTICS
STRATEGIC THINKING
ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS
ENHANCE PERFORMANCE
STORY TELLING ABILITIES
SIMPLIFY COMPLEX INSIGHTS
DEVELOPMENT AND DEFINITION OF KPIS

DATA COLLECTION PROCESSES
ANALYZE THE DATA COLLECTION PROCESS
IDENTIFY PATTERNS, TRENDS AND OPPORTUNITIES
DESIGN BI SOLUTIONS (CUST SERV VS PERFORMANCE METRICS)
DESIGN AN AUTO SELF-SERVICE ARCHITECTURE FOR CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (ENSURING ACCESIBILITY AND USABILITY)
PROVIDE INSIGHTS AND RECOS BASED ON BI METRICS
SET A CENTRAL DASHBOARD TO MEASURE SUCT.SERV METRICS TAKEN FROM MULTIPLE SOURCES
CI/CD METRICS VS BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS
SET BI BEST PRACTICES

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MASTER DATA MANAGEMENT ANALYST

DATA ENGINEER, MACHINE LEARNING, DATA QUALITY ANALYST, STATISTICS

DATA STEWARD:
	The concept of a data steward revolves around the idea of having individuals within an organization who are responsible for managing and ensuring the quality, 	security, and appropriate use of data.
	These individuals act as custodians of data assets, overseeing various aspects of data management, such as data governance, data quality, data security, and 	compliance with regulations.
	Data stewardship is the collection of practices that ensure an organization’s data is accessible, usable, safe, and trusted.
	It’s about taking care of data: knowing where it is, making sure it is trustworthy, safeguarding data lineage, enforcing the rules about how data can be used, 	and promoting its value. 
	Overall, data stewards play a crucial role in ensuring that data assets are effectively managed, secured, and leveraged to support organizational goals and 	objectives.
	They serve as advocates for data quality, integrity, and compliance within the organization, helping to maximize the value of data as a strategic asset.
	
DATA STEWARDSHIP OBLIGATIONS:

Key responsibilities of data stewards may include:

Data Governance: Developing and implementing data governance policies, procedures, and standards to ensure that data is managed effectively and consistently across the organization.
Data Quality Management: Monitoring and improving the quality of data by establishing data quality standards, performing data quality assessments, and implementing data quality improvement initiatives.
Data Security: Ensuring that appropriate security measures are in place to protect data from unauthorized access, breaches, or misuse. This may involve collaborating with cybersecurity teams to implement security controls and protocols.
Data Compliance: Ensuring compliance with relevant data regulations and standards, such as GDPR, HIPAA, or industry-specific regulations. Data stewards may work closely with legal and compliance teams to understand requirements and ensure that data practices align with regulations.
Data Lifecycle Management: Managing the lifecycle of data from creation or acquisition to archival or deletion. This involves defining data retention policies, data archiving strategies, and data disposal procedures.
Data Documentation and Metadata Management: Documenting data assets, including metadata such as data definitions, lineage, and usage. Maintaining metadata repositories and ensuring that metadata is accurate and up-to-date.
Data Integration and Interoperability: Facilitating the integration of data from various sources and systems to enable interoperability and data exchange. Data stewards may work with IT teams to ensure that data integration processes are efficient and comply with data standards.
Data Access and Authorization: Managing access to data and ensuring that data access controls are enforced according to organizational policies and regulatory requirements. This includes defining user roles and permissions, as well as monitoring data access activity.
			
DATA STEWARD BEST PRACTICES:
https://www.informatica.com/resources/articles/data-stewardship-best-practices.html

DATA STEWARDSHIP PRINCIPLES FOR SUCCESS:
https://www.informatica.com/resources/articles/data-stewardship-best-practices.html
	
DATA MANAGEMENT:
Data management encompasses a set of processes, policies, technologies, and practices that organizations use to manage their data assets effectively throughout their lifecycle.
The goal of data management is to ensure that data is accurate, consistent, secure, accessible, and used appropriately to support the organization's goals and objectives. 
Effective data management requires collaboration across different functions within an organization, including IT, business units, legal, compliance, and security teams. 
By implementing robust data management practices, organizations can leverage their data assets more effectively to drive innovation, improve decision-making, and gain a competitive advantage in today's data-driven world.
	
DATA MANAGEMENT COMPONENTS:	
Data Governance: Data governance refers to the overall management framework that defines the roles, responsibilities, policies, and procedures for managing data assets within an organization. It involves establishing processes for decision-making, oversight, and accountability related to data management.
Data Quality Management: Data quality management focuses on ensuring that data is accurate, complete, consistent, and relevant for its intended use. This involves identifying and resolving data quality issues, implementing data quality standards and controls, and continuously monitoring and improving data quality over time.
Data Security: Data security involves protecting data assets from unauthorized access, breaches, or misuse. This includes implementing security measures such as encryption, access controls, authentication, and authorization, as well as establishing policies and procedures for data security management.
Data Integration: Data integration involves combining data from multiple sources and systems to provide a unified view of the data for analysis, reporting, and decision-making purposes. This may include techniques such as data warehousing, data integration platforms, and extract, transform, load (ETL) processes.
Data Architecture: Data architecture defines the structure, organization, and relationships of data within an organization. It includes designing data models, data schemas, and data repositories to support business needs and requirements.
Master Data Management (MDM): Master data management focuses on managing and maintaining master data entities (such as customers, products, and employees)to ensure consistency and accuracy across different systems and applications.
Data Lifecycle Management: Data lifecycle management involves managing data from creation or acquisition to archival or deletion. This includes defining data retention policies, data archival strategies, and data disposal procedures.
Metadata Management: Metadata management involves managing metadata, which provides context and information about the data, such as data definitions, data lineage, and data usage. It includes capturing, storing, and maintaining metadata to facilitate data discovery, understanding, and governance.
Data Privacy and Compliance: Data privacy and compliance involve ensuring that data management practices comply with relevant laws, regulations, and industry standards, such as GDPR, HIPAA, and PCI-DSS. This includes implementing measures to protect sensitive data and ensuring that data handling practices are compliant with legal requirements.

TEAMS INVOLVED: MDM (US) + GATE - GLOBAL ANALYTICS AND TECH CENTER (INDIA)

DATA MODELING
	See the other Notepad document.
	
DATA MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES:
Data management techniques encompass various strategies, methods, and technologies used to effectively manage data throughout its lifecycle. 

Here are some common data management techniques:
Data Modeling: Data modeling involves designing the structure and relationships of data entities, attributes, and constraints. This technique helps in understanding and representing how data should be organized and stored within databases or data repositories.
Normalization: Normalization is a technique used to organize data in relational databases to minimize redundancy and dependency. It involves breaking down data into smaller, more manageable components to reduce data redundancy and improve data integrity.
Data Warehousing: Data warehousing involves collecting and storing data from multiple sources into a central repository for analysis and reporting purposes. Data warehouses typically use techniques such as extract, transform, load (ETL) processes to integrate and organize data from disparate sources.
Data Integration: Data integration techniques involve combining data from different sources and formats to provide a unified view of the data. This may include techniques such as data federation, data replication, and data virtualization to integrate data from heterogeneous sources.
Data Cleansing: Data cleansing, also known as data scrubbing or data cleaning, involves identifying and correcting errors, inconsistencies, and inaccuracies in data. This technique may include processes such as deduplication, standardization, and validation to ensure data quality.
Data Encryption: Data encryption involves encoding data to prevent unauthorized access or interception. Encryption techniques such as symmetric encryption, asymmetric encryption, and hashing are used to protect sensitive data both at rest and in transit.
Data Masking: Data masking involves disguising sensitive data by replacing it with fictitious or scrambled values while preserving the format and structure of the data. This technique is often used to protect sensitive data in non-production environments or for anonymizing data for testing and development purposes.
Data Archiving: Data archiving involves moving infrequently accessed or historical data to secondary storage for long-term retention. This helps in optimizing storage resources and improving the performance of production systems by reducing the volume of data stored in primary storage.
Data Backup and Recovery: Data backup and recovery techniques involve creating copies of data to protect against data loss due to hardware failure, software corruption, or other unforeseen events. Backup techniques may include full backups, incremental backups, and differential backups, along with recovery processes to restore data in case of a disaster.
Data Governance: Data governance involves establishing policies, processes, and controls to ensure that data is managed effectively, securely, and in compliance with regulatory requirements. This includes defining roles and responsibilities, establishing data standards, and implementing data stewardship practices to govern data across the organization.

DATA MANAGEMENT BEST PRATICES:
By implementing these best practices, organizations can effectively manage their data assets, maximize the value of data, and mitigate risks associated with data management. 
This, in turn, enables organizations to make informed decisions, drive innovation, and maintain a competitive advantage in today's data-driven landscape.
Establish Data Governance: Implement a formal data governance framework that defines policies, procedures, roles, and responsibilities for managing data across the organization. This ensures accountability and alignment with business objectives.
Define Data Quality Standards: Establish data quality standards and metrics to measure the accuracy, completeness, consistency, and timeliness of data. Implement data quality checks and validation processes to ensure that data meets these standards.
Maintain Data Documentation: Document metadata, including data definitions, data lineage, and data usage, to provide context and understanding of the data. This facilitates data discovery, interpretation, and governance.
Ensure Data Security: Implement robust security measures to protect data from unauthorized access, breaches, or misuse. This includes encryption, access controls, authentication, and monitoring of data access and usage.
Adopt Master Data Management (MDM): Implement MDM practices to manage and maintain master data entities (e.g., customers, products) across the organization to ensure consistency and accuracy.
Implement Data Lifecycle Management: Manage data throughout its lifecycle, from creation or acquisition to archival or deletion. Define data retention policies, archival strategies, and disposal procedures to ensure compliance and optimize storage resources.
Promote Data Integration: Integrate data from disparate sources and formats to provide a unified view of the data. Use data integration techniques such as ETL processes, data federation, and data virtualization to enable data-driven insights and decision-making.
Enable Self-Service Analytics: Empower business users with self-service analytics tools and platforms that enable them to access, analyze, and visualize data independently. This promotes data-driven decision-making and innovation across the organization.
Monitor and Audit Data Usage: Implement monitoring and auditing mechanisms to track data access, usage, and changes. This helps detect anomalies, ensure compliance with data policies and regulations, and identify areas for improvement.
Continuously Improve Data Management Practices: Regularly review and update data management practices to adapt to evolving business needs, technology advancements, and regulatory requirements. Foster a culture of continuous improvement and learning within the organization.

DATA GOVERNANCE BEST PRATICES:
By implementing these data governance best practices, organizations can establish a robust framework for managing data effectively, ensuring data quality, integrity, security, and compliance, and driving value from their data assets.
Establish Clear Objectives and Goals: Define clear objectives and goals for data governance initiatives aligned with the organization's strategic objectives. This ensures that data governance efforts are focused and prioritize areas that are critical for the business.
Gain Executive Sponsorship: Secure executive sponsorship and support for data governance initiatives to ensure organizational buy-in and allocate necessary resources. Executive sponsorship provides visibility, authority, and accountability for data governance efforts.
Define Roles and Responsibilities: Clearly define roles and responsibilities for data governance stakeholders, including data stewards, data owners, data custodians, and data governance council members. Assign accountability for managing and governing data assets effectively.
Establish Data Governance Framework: Develop a formal data governance framework that outlines policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines for managing data across the organization. This provides a structured approach to data governance and ensures consistency in data management practices.
Create Data Governance Council: Establish a cross-functional data governance council comprising representatives from business units, IT, legal, compliance, and other relevant stakeholders. The data governance council provides oversight, guidance, and decision-making authority for data governance initiatives.
Define Data Policies and Standards: Define data policies and standards that govern the collection, storage, access, sharing, and usage of data. This includes data quality standards, data classification policies, data privacy policies, and data security standards.
Implement Data Quality Management: Implement data quality management practices to ensure that data is accurate, complete, consistent, and relevant for its intended use. This involves establishing data quality metrics, conducting data quality assessments, and implementing data quality improvement initiatives.
Ensure Data Security and Privacy: Implement robust data security and privacy measures to protect sensitive data from unauthorized access, breaches, or misuse. This includes encryption, access controls, data masking, and compliance with data privacy regulations such as GDPR or CCPA.
Provide Data Governance Training: Provide training and awareness programs to educate stakeholders about the importance of data governance, their roles and responsibilities, and data governance best practices. This promotes a culture of data governance within the organization.
Monitor and Measure Data Governance Effectiveness: Establish key performance indicators (KPIs) and metrics to measure the effectiveness of data governance initiatives. Regularly monitor and evaluate data governance processes, compliance with policies, and outcomes to identify areas for improvement.
Promote Data Governance Awareness and Communication: Promote awareness of data governance initiatives and communicate the value of data governance to stakeholders across the organization. Encourage collaboration, transparency, and communication to foster a data-driven culture.

DATA ANALYTICS BEST PRACTICES:
Data analytics best practices are crucial for extracting valuable insights from data and making informed decisions. Here are some key data analytics best practices:
Define Clear Objectives: Clearly define the business objectives and questions you want to address with data analytics. This ensures that your analytics efforts are aligned with business goals and priorities.
Understand Your Data: Gain a deep understanding of the data you are working with, including its sources, structure, quality, and limitations. Conduct data profiling and exploratory data analysis to identify patterns, trends, and outliers.
Data Preparation and Cleaning: Cleanse and prepare your data before analysis by addressing missing values, outliers, and inconsistencies. Use data cleaning techniques such as imputation, outlier detection, and normalization to ensure data quality.
Choose the Right Tools and Techniques: Select the appropriate analytics tools and techniques based on the type of data and analysis objectives. This may include descriptive analytics, predictive analytics, prescriptive analytics, machine learning, or data visualization tools.
Iterative Approach: Take an iterative approach to data analytics by starting with simple analyses and gradually increasing complexity as you gain insights and refine your questions. Iterate on your analyses based on feedback and new data.
Data Visualization: Use data visualization techniques to present your findings in a clear, concise, and actionable manner. Choose visualizations that effectively communicate insights and support decision-making.
Collaboration and Communication: Foster collaboration between data analysts, domain experts, and stakeholders to ensure that analytics efforts are aligned with business needs and priorities. Communicate findings and recommendations effectively to non-technical audiences.
Validate and Interpret Results: Validate your analysis results by comparing them with domain knowledge, benchmarks, or alternative analyses. Interpret results in the context of business goals and objectives to derive actionable insights.
Document Your Work: Document your analytics process, methodologies, assumptions, and findings to ensure transparency, reproducibility, and accountability. This facilitates knowledge sharing, collaboration, and future reference.
Continuously Learn and Improve: Stay updated on advances in data analytics techniques, tools, and technologies. Continuously learn from your analytics efforts and incorporate feedback to improve future analyses and decision-making.
Ethical Considerations: Consider ethical implications and potential biases in your data analytics processes and outcomes. Ensure that your analyses are conducted ethically and responsibly, respecting privacy, confidentiality, and fairness principles.

DATA GOVERNANCE METHODOLOGY FOR DATA OPS:
Data governance methodologies for DevOps need to blend the principles of data governance with the agility and automation practices of DevOps. Here are some methodologies that can help achieve this:
Integration with DevOps Processes: Embed data governance practices into DevOps workflows and processes to ensure that data governance is an integral part of the software development lifecycle. This involves incorporating data governance checkpoints, controls, and automation into CI/CD pipelines.
Automated Data Quality Checks: Implement automated data quality checks as part of continuous integration and deployment processes to ensure that data meets predefined quality standards before being deployed to production. This includes checks for completeness, accuracy, consistency, and timeliness of data.}
Version Control for Data Assets: Use version control systems to manage and track changes to data assets, such as database schemas, configurations, and data pipelines. This enables traceability, auditability, and collaboration for data governance activities within DevOps teams.
Infrastructure as Code (IaC) for Data Platforms: Apply infrastructure as code (IaC) principles to provision, configure, and manage data platforms and infrastructure. This ensures consistency, repeatability, and scalability in data management practices across different environments.
Policy-Driven Data Governance: Define data governance policies as code and enforce them through automated policy enforcement mechanisms. This includes policies for data classification, access control, encryption, retention, and compliance with regulatory requirements.
Continuous Compliance Monitoring: Implement continuous compliance monitoring processes to ensure that data governance policies and standards are adhered to throughout the DevOps lifecycle. Use automated monitoring tools to detect deviations from policy and trigger remediation actions.
Data Lifecycle Management Automation: Automate data lifecycle management processes, including data ingestion, transformation, storage, archival, and deletion. Use data pipeline orchestration tools to streamline and automate data workflows while ensuring data governance controls are maintained.
Self-Service Data Provisioning: Enable self-service data provisioning and access controls for DevOps teams to access and use data assets efficiently while ensuring compliance with data governance policies. Implement role-based access controls and data masking techniques to protect sensitive data.
Collaborative Data Governance Practices: Foster collaboration and communication between data governance and DevOps teams to ensure alignment of goals, priorities, and processes. Establish cross-functional teams and forums to facilitate knowledge sharing, problem-solving, and decision-making.
Continuous Improvement and Feedback Loop: Establish a feedback loop to gather insights from DevOps processes and outcomes to continuously improve data governance practices. Use metrics, analytics, and feedback mechanisms to identify areas for optimization and refinement.
	
DATA INTEGRATION TECHNIQUES:
Data integration techniques involve combining data from different sources and formats to provide a unified view of the data for analysis, reporting, and decision-making. Here are some common data integration techniques:
Extract, Transform, Load (ETL): ETL is a traditional data integration approach that involves extracting data from source systems, transforming it to fit the target data model or schema, and loading it into a data warehouse or data mart. ETL processes typically use batch processing and are well-suited for integrating structured data from disparate sources.
Extract, Load, Transform (ELT): ELT is a variation of ETL where data is extracted from source systems and loaded into a staging area or data lake without transformation. Transformation occurs after data is loaded, using tools and technologies that can handle large volumes of data. ELT is often used for integrating big data and unstructured data sources.
Data Virtualization: Data virtualization allows users to access and query data from disparate sources as if it were stored in a single location, without physically moving or replicating the data. Data virtualization platforms provide a layer of abstraction over heterogeneous data sources, enabling real-time access to data and simplifying data integration.
Change Data Capture (CDC): CDC is a technique used to identify and capture changes made to data in source systems in near real-time. CDC captures inserts, updates, and deletes from source systems' transaction logs or change streams and replicates these changes to target systems, ensuring that data remains synchronized across different environments.
Enterprise Service Bus (ESB): An ESB is a middleware platform that facilitates communication and integration between disparate systems and applications using a messaging-oriented architecture. ESBs provide routing, transformation, and mediation capabilities to enable seamless data exchange and interoperability.
API-Based Integration: Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) provide a standardized way for different systems and applications to communicate and exchange data. API-based integration involves exposing data and functionality through APIs and consuming APIs to access data from external systems, enabling seamless integration between applications and services.
Data Replication: Data replication involves copying data from source systems to target systems in near real-time or batch mode. Replication technologies replicate data at the database level, file system level, or application level, ensuring that data is consistently available across multiple systems for analysis and reporting.
Data Federation: Data federation combines data from multiple sources in real-time or on-demand to provide a unified view of the data without physically consolidating it into a single repository. Data federation tools and techniques enable users to query and access data from disparate sources as if it were stored in a single location.
Master Data Management (MDM): MDM is a discipline that involves managing and maintaining master data entities, such as customers, products, and employees, to ensure consistency and accuracy across different systems and applications. MDM solutions integrate master data from disparate sources and provide a single source of truth for master data management.
Manual Integration: In some cases, manual integration techniques may be used to combine data from different sources using tools such as spreadsheets, data entry forms, or manual data entry. While less efficient and prone to errors, manual integration may be suitable for small-scale or ad-hoc integration requirements.
	
DATA TAXONOMY TECHNIQUES:
Data taxonomy techniques involve organizing and categorizing data into a hierarchical structure to facilitate data management, discovery, and governance. Here are some common techniques for creating and implementing data taxonomies:
Understand Data Sources and Usage: Start by gaining a comprehensive understanding of the organization's data sources, including databases, files, applications, and external data feeds. Analyze how different data elements are used across the organization to identify common themes and relationships.
Identify Data Categories: Based on the analysis of data sources and usage, identify high-level data categories or domains that represent broad groupings of related data. These categories should reflect the organization's business functions, processes, and objectives.
Define Hierarchical Structure: Develop a hierarchical structure for organizing data categories into subcategories and finer-grained data elements. This structure should reflect the relationships and dependencies between different data elements, with higher-level categories representing broader concepts and lower-level categories representing more specific details.
Standardize Naming Conventions: Establish standardized naming conventions for data categories, subcategories, and data elements to ensure consistency and clarity. Use clear, descriptive names that accurately represent the content and purpose of each category.
Utilize Metadata: Leverage metadata to enrich and describe data elements within the taxonomy. Include attributes such as data type, description, owner, source, usage, and quality metrics to provide additional context and information about each data element.
Incorporate Business Glossary: Develop a business glossary that defines and explains the terminology used within the data taxonomy. This helps ensure common understanding and alignment of terminology across different business units and stakeholders.
Iterative Approach: Take an iterative approach to developing and refining the data taxonomy, involving stakeholders from various departments and functions. Solicit feedback and incorporate insights from users to ensure that the taxonomy meets the needs of the organization.
Map Data Assets: Map existing data assets to the data taxonomy to assess coverage, identify gaps, and understand overlaps or redundancies. This helps ensure that all relevant data assets are accounted for within the taxonomy and provides a foundation for data governance activities.
Governance and Maintenance: Establish governance processes and responsibilities for managing and maintaining the data taxonomy over time. Define roles and procedures for updating, expanding, and evolving the taxonomy to accommodate changes in business requirements and data landscape.
Integrate with Data Management Practices: Integrate the data taxonomy with other data management practices, such as data governance, data quality, and data cataloging. Ensure that the taxonomy serves as a foundational component that supports and aligns with these broader data management initiatives.

DATA REPORTING TECHNIQUES:
Data reporting techniques involve presenting data in a meaningful and understandable format to facilitate analysis, decision-making, and communication of insights. Here are some common data reporting techniques:
Tabular Reports: Tabular reports present data in a structured format with rows and columns, similar to a spreadsheet. They are useful for presenting detailed data in a concise and organized manner, allowing users to easily compare and analyze values.	
Charts and Graphs: Charts and graphs visually represent data using different graphical elements such as bars, lines, pie slices, and scatter plots. They are effective for summarizing and visualizing trends, patterns, and relationships in data, making complex information easier to understand at a glance.
Dashboards: Dashboards are interactive visual displays that consolidate and present key metrics, KPIs, and performance indicators in a single view. They provide real-time insights into business performance and enable users to monitor trends, track progress, and identify areas for improvement.
Heatmaps: Heatmaps use color-coding to represent data values on a two-dimensional grid, with colors ranging from light to dark to indicate low to high values. Heatmaps are effective for highlighting patterns and variations in data, such as geographic concentrations, density distributions, and hotspots.
Pivot Tables: Pivot tables are interactive data analysis tools that summarize and aggregate data based on user-defined criteria. They enable users to dynamically rearrange and manipulate data to analyze trends, compare categories, and perform ad-hoc analysis.
Geospatial Visualization: Geospatial visualization techniques, such as maps and geographic information systems (GIS), represent data in a spatial context, allowing users to explore and analyze data based on location. Geospatial visualizations are useful for analyzing regional trends, demographics, and spatial relationships.
Infographics: Infographics combine text, visuals, and graphics to present complex information and data-driven stories in a visually appealing and engaging format. They are effective for conveying key messages, summarizing insights, and capturing attention.
Drill-Down Reports: Drill-down reports provide hierarchical views of data, allowing users to navigate from summary-level information to detailed data by clicking or interacting with specific elements. They enable users to explore data at different levels of granularity and uncover underlying patterns and trends.
Interactive Reports: Interactive reports allow users to customize and interact with data, such as filtering, sorting, and drilling down, to explore and analyze data based on their specific needs and preferences. Interactive features enhance user engagement and facilitate data exploration and discovery.
Narrative Reporting: Narrative reporting combines data with textual descriptions and explanations to tell a cohesive story and provide context for data insights. It helps users understand the significance of data findings and make informed decisions based on data-driven narratives.

SQL DATA REPORTING:
SQL (Structured Query Language) is commonly used for data reporting tasks due to its flexibility, power, and ability to manipulate and retrieve data from databases. Here are some common SQL data reporting techniques:
		
SELECT Queries: Use SELECT queries to retrieve data from one or more database tables based on specified criteria. SELECT queries can be customized to filter, sort, aggregate, and group data as needed to meet reporting requirements.

			Example:

			sql
			Copy code
			SELECT column1, column2
			FROM table_name
			WHERE condition;
Aggregate Functions: Utilize aggregate functions such as COUNT, SUM, AVG, MIN, and MAX to perform calculations and summarizations on data values. Aggregate functions are useful for generating summary statistics and metrics for reporting purposes.

			Example:

			scss
			Copy code
			SELECT COUNT(*) AS total_records,
				   SUM(sales_amount) AS total_sales,
				   AVG(sales_amount) AS avg_sales
			FROM sales_table;
JOIN Operations: Use JOIN operations to combine data from multiple tables based on related columns. JOINs allow you to create comprehensive reports that incorporate data from different sources or related entities.

			Example:

			vbnet
			Copy code
			SELECT orders.order_id, customers.customer_name, orders.order_date
			FROM orders
			JOIN customers ON orders.customer_id = customers.customer_id;
Subqueries: Use subqueries to nest one SELECT query within another SELECT query. Subqueries can be used to retrieve data dynamically based on the results of another query, enabling more complex data reporting scenarios.

			Example:

			sql
			Copy code
			SELECT product_name, unit_price
			FROM products
			WHERE unit_price > (SELECT AVG(unit_price) FROM products);
Window Functions: Window functions provide advanced analytical capabilities for performing calculations over a set of rows within a defined window. Window functions are useful for generating rankings, percentiles, and moving averages in data reports.

			Example:

			sql
			Copy code
			SELECT product_name, unit_price, 
				   ROW_NUMBER() OVER (ORDER BY unit_price DESC) AS rank
			FROM products;
CTE (Common Table Expressions): Use CTEs to create temporary result sets that can be referenced within subsequent SQL statements. CTEs are helpful for breaking down complex queries into more manageable and readable parts.

			Example:

			vbnet
			Copy code
			WITH top_products AS (
			  SELECT product_name, unit_price
			  FROM products
			  WHERE unit_price > 100
			)
			SELECT * FROM top_products;
Stored Procedures: Create stored procedures to encapsulate SQL logic and perform repetitive reporting tasks. Stored procedures enhance reusability, modularity, and security of SQL code for generating reports.

			Example:

			sql
			Copy code
			CREATE PROCEDURE GetSalesReport
			AS
			BEGIN
			  SELECT order_date, SUM(order_amount) AS total_sales
			  FROM orders
			  GROUP BY order_date;
			END;

NAMING CONVENTIONS:
Naming conventions are guidelines or standards for naming database objects such as tables, columns, indexes, stored procedures, and other database elements. 
Consistent naming conventions help improve clarity, maintainability, and understandability of database schemas and queries. Here are some common naming conventions used in SQL databases:
		
		Table Names:
		Use descriptive, plural nouns to name tables.
		Avoid using spaces or special characters in table names.
		Use underscores (_) or camelCase for multi-word table names.
		Example: customers, order_details, product_categories.
		
		Column Names:
		Use descriptive, singular nouns to name columns.
		Avoid using reserved keywords as column names.
		Use underscores (_) or camelCase for multi-word column names.
		Prefix foreign key columns with the referenced table name.
		Example: customer_id, product_name, order_date.

		Primary Key Columns:
		Name primary key columns using the singular form of the table name followed by _id.
		Example: customer_id, product_id, order_id.

		Foreign Key Columns:
		Name foreign key columns by prefixing the referenced table name followed by _id.
		Example: customer_id, product_id, order_id.
		
		Index Names:
		Use descriptive names to indicate the purpose of the index.
		Include the table name and column names in the index name.
		Use prefixes to indicate the type of index (e.g., idx, pk, fk).
		Example: idx_customer_name, pk_order_id, fk_customer_id.
		
		Stored Procedures:
		Use descriptive verbs followed by nouns to name stored procedures.
		Prefix stored procedures with usp_ (user-defined stored procedure).
		Use underscores (_) or camelCase for multi-word stored procedure names.
		Example: usp_GetCustomerById, usp_UpdateProductPrice.
		
		Views:
		Use descriptive names to indicate the purpose of the view.
		Prefix views with vw_ to distinguish them from tables.
		Use underscores (_) or camelCase for multi-word view names.
		Example: vw_ProductSalesSummary, vw_CustomerOrders.
		
		Constraints:
		Use descriptive names to indicate the purpose of constraints.
		Include the column name and the type of constraint in the name.
		Example: fk_customer_id, pk_order_id, chk_product_price.
		
		Triggers:
		Use descriptive names to indicate the purpose of triggers.
		Include the table name and the trigger event in the name.
		Example: trg_audit_orders_insert, trg_update_product_inventory.

		Database Objects:
		Use consistent casing (e.g., PascalCase, camelCase, or snake_case) for naming conventions throughout the database schema.
		Avoid using reserved keywords or special characters in object names.
		Use meaningful and intuitive names that accurately reflect the purpose and content of the database objects.
	
DATA STANDARDIZE:
Data standardization techniques involve transforming and harmonizing data from different sources into a common format or structure to ensure consistency, accuracy, and interoperability. Here are some common data standardization techniques:
Normalization: Normalization is the process of organizing data in a relational database to eliminate redundancy and dependency, thereby improving data integrity and consistency. Normalization techniques, such as removing duplicate records, splitting data into smaller tables, and defining relationships between tables, help ensure that data is stored efficiently and accurately.
Standardizing Data Formats: Standardize data formats to ensure consistency across different data sources and systems. This includes standardizing date formats, numeric formats, currency formats, and other data types to facilitate data integration and interoperability.
Cleaning and Deduplication: Cleanse and deduplicate data to remove inconsistencies, errors, and redundancies. Data cleaning techniques, such as removing special characters, correcting spelling mistakes, and merging duplicate records, help improve data quality and accuracy.
Data Validation: Validate data to ensure that it meets predefined criteria or standards. Data validation techniques, such as pattern matching, range checks, and referential integrity checks, help identify and correct errors or discrepancies in data.
Data Enrichment: Enhance and enrich data by adding additional information or context from external sources. Data enrichment techniques, such as data augmentation, data linking, and data enrichment services, help improve the completeness and relevance of data for analysis and decision-making.
Standardizing Terminology: Standardize terminology and vocabulary used to describe data elements, attributes, and categories. Establishing a common business glossary and data dictionary helps ensure consistent interpretation and understanding of data across different stakeholders and systems.
Master Data Management (MDM): Implement master data management practices to manage and maintain master data entities, such as customers, products, and employees, in a centralized repository. MDM techniques, such as data governance, data quality management, and data stewardship, help ensure consistency and accuracy of master data across the organization.
Data Transformation: Transform data from different sources into a common format or structure using data transformation techniques, such as mapping, parsing, and reformatting. Data transformation tools and platforms, such as ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) and data integration software, help automate and streamline the process of data standardization.
Data Modeling: Develop data models and schemas to define the structure, relationships, and constraints of data within an organization. Data modeling techniques, such as entity-relationship modeling, dimensional modeling, and schema design, help ensure consistency and coherence of data structures and representations.

DATA ORGANIZATION AND PRIORITIZATION SKILLS:
Organization and prioritization skills are essential for effectively managing tasks, projects, and responsibilities in both personal and professional settings. 
Here are some key strategies for developing and improving organization and prioritization skills:
Create To-Do Lists: Start by creating to-do lists to capture and organize tasks and activities. Use tools such as notebooks, task management apps, or digital calendars to maintain and update your to-do lists regularly.
Set Clear Goals: Define clear, specific, and achievable goals for your tasks and projects. Break down larger goals into smaller, manageable tasks to make them more actionable and attainable.
Prioritize Tasks: Prioritize tasks based on their urgency, importance, and impact on your goals and objectives. Use prioritization techniques such as the Eisenhower Matrix, ABC prioritization, or the 80/20 rule (Pareto Principle) to identify and focus on high-priority tasks.		Use Time Management Techniques: Utilize time management techniques such as time blocking, Pomodoro Technique, or the 2-Minute Rule to allocate time effectively and minimize distractions. Set specific time slots for focused work and breaks to maintain productivity and concentration.
Delegate Responsibilities: Delegate tasks and responsibilities to others when appropriate to leverage resources and expertise. Identify tasks that can be outsourced or assigned to team members to free up time for higher-priority activities.
Organize Your Workspace: Keep your physical and digital workspaces clean, clutter-free, and organized. Use filing systems, folders, and labels to categorize and store documents, files, and information for easy retrieval.
Use Technology Tools: Take advantage of productivity tools and technology solutions to streamline organization and prioritization tasks. Use task management apps, project management software, calendar apps, and collaboration tools to stay organized and efficient.
Practice Time Blocking: Allocate dedicated time blocks for specific tasks, projects, or activities on your calendar. Reserve uninterrupted time for focused work and avoid multitasking to maintain productivity and concentration.
Review and Adjust Priorities: Regularly review and reassess your priorities based on changing circumstances, deadlines, and goals. Adjust your to-do lists and task priorities as needed to stay aligned with your objectives and commitments.
Maintain Work-Life Balance: Balance your personal and professional commitments to avoid burnout and maintain overall well-being. Allocate time for leisure, relaxation, and self-care activities to recharge and rejuvenate.

MATCHING AND MERGING DATA:
Matching and merging data records involve identifying duplicate or related records from different sources and combining them into a single, comprehensive record. Here are some common techniques for matching and merging data records:
Exact Matching: Compare data fields, such as names, IDs, or unique identifiers, between records to identify exact matches. Records with identical values in key fields are considered potential matches and can be merged into a single record.
Fuzzy Matching: Use fuzzy matching algorithms to identify similar or approximate matches between records. Fuzzy matching techniques, such as Levenshtein distance, Jaccard similarity, or Soundex encoding, account for variations in spelling formatting, or abbreviations to identify potential matches.
Blocking: Divide the dataset into smaller blocks or subsets based on predefined criteria, such as initial letters, zip codes, or date ranges. Compare records within each block to identify potential matches, reducing the computational complexity of the matching process.
Tokenization: Break down data fields into tokens, such as words or phrases, and compare individual tokens between records. Token-based matching techniques allow for partial matches and variations in word order or punctuation.
Record Linkage: Use probabilistic record linkage techniques to compare multiple data fields and calculate the likelihood or probability of two records referring to the same entity. Record linkage methods, such as probabilistic matching or machine learning algorithms, assign weights to different matching criteria and determine the overall similarity between records.
Rule-Based Matching: Define custom matching rules or criteria based on domain knowledge or business requirements to identify potential matches. Rule-based matching techniques allow for flexible and customizable matching logic tailored to specific use cases or data characteristics.
Human Review: Conduct manual review and validation of potential matches by subject matter experts or data stewards. Human review ensures accuracy and reliability in matching and merging records, especially for complex or ambiguous cases that cannot be resolved automatically
Data Consolidation: Merge matched records into a single, consolidated record by combining relevant attributes and resolving conflicts or discrepancies. Data consolidation techniques involve selecting the most accurate or complete information from each source and creating a unified representation of the entity.
Data Quality Assessment: Evaluate the quality and reliability of data sources and attributes before matching and merging records. Assess data completeness, accuracy, consistency, and timeliness to identify potential issues or errors that may affect the matching process.
Audit Trail: Maintain an audit trail or record of matching and merging activities, including the rationale, decisions, and actions taken during the process. Audit trails provide transparency, accountability, and traceability for data integration and quality management efforts.

COMMUNICATION SKILL IN AMBIGUOUS ENVIRONMENTS:
Communication skills in ambiguous environments are crucial for effectively conveying information, clarifying uncertainties, and fostering understanding among team members. Here are some strategies for navigating communication in ambiguous situations:
Active Listening: Practice active listening to fully understand others' perspectives, concerns, and ideas in ambiguous situations. Listen attentively, ask clarifying questions, and paraphrase to ensure accurate interpretation and demonstrate empathy.
Seek Clarification: When faced with ambiguity, seek clarification and additional information to gain a clearer understanding of the situation. Ask open-ended questions, consult subject matter experts, and gather diverse viewpoints to fill knowledge gaps and reduce uncertainty.Provide Context: Offer context and background information to help others make sense of ambiguous situations. Explain the rationale behind decisions, share relevant data or insights, and provide historical context to facilitate understanding and alignment.
Be Transparent: Foster transparency and openness in communication by sharing information openly and honestly, even when faced with uncertainty or ambiguity. Acknowledge limitations in knowledge or understanding and communicate openly about ongoing efforts to address ambiguity.
Manage Expectations: Manage expectations by clearly communicating what is known and what is uncertain or speculative in ambiguous situations. Set realistic expectations regarding timelines, outcomes, and potential risks, and keep stakeholders informed of any changes or updates.
Adapt Communication Style: Adapt your communication style and approach to suit the needs and preferences of different stakeholders in ambiguous environments. Tailor your message, tone, and delivery to ensure clarity, relevance, and resonance with the audience.
Facilitate Collaboration: Encourage collaboration and teamwork to leverage diverse perspectives and expertise in navigating ambiguity. Foster an environment of trust, openness, and psychological safety where team members feel comfortable sharing ideas, asking questions, and challenging assumptions.
Embrace Ambiguity: Embrace ambiguity as a natural part of complex, uncertain environments and encourage a growth mindset among team members. Emphasize the importance of curiosity, adaptability, and resilience in navigating ambiguity and finding creative solutions to challenges.
Use Visual Aids: Use visual aids, such as diagrams, charts, or mind maps, to illustrate concepts, relationships, and potential outcomes in ambiguous situations. Visual representations can help simplify complex information and enhance understanding among team members.
Follow Up: Follow up on communication to ensure clarity, address any lingering questions or concerns, and provide updates as new information becomes available. Reiterate key points, summarize decisions, and confirm understanding to avoid misunderstandings or misinterpretations.

COMPLIANCE REGULATORY DATA STANDARDS:
Compliance with regulatory standards is essential for businesses to ensure legal, ethical, and operational adherence to industry-specific regulations and guidelines. Here are some key compliance regulatory standards across various industries:
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR): GDPR is a European Union regulation that governs data protection and privacy for individuals within the EU and the European Economic Area (EEA). It imposes strict requirements on how organizations collect, process, and protect personal data and grants individuals greater control over their personal information.
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA): HIPAA is a United States federal law that establishes privacy and security standards for protected health information (PHI). It applies to healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses, as well as their business associates, and mandates safeguards to protect the confidentiality and integrity of PHI.
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS): PCI DSS is a set of security standards established by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council (PCI SSC) to protect payment card data and ensure secure transactions. It applies to merchants, service providers, and other entities that handle credit card information and mandates requirements for data encryption, access controls, and network security.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX): SOX is a United States federal law enacted to enhance corporate accountability and transparency in financial reporting. It requires public companies to establish and maintain internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, auditing, and disclosure to prevent fraud and protect investors.
Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA): FISMA is a United States federal law that establishes cybersecurity requirements for federal agencies to protect information and information systems. It mandates agencies to develop, implement, and maintain risk-based cybersecurity programs to safeguard sensitive data and critical infrastructure.		ISO 27001: Information Security Management System (ISMS): ISO 27001 is an international standard that sets requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining, and continuously improving an information security management system (ISMS). It provides a framework for organizations to identify, assess, and manage information security risks effectively.
Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP): FedRAMP is a United States government program that standardizes the security assessment, authorization, and monitoring of cloud service providers (CSPs) to ensure the security of federal government data in the cloud. It establishes security requirements and controls for cloud systems used by federal agencies.		General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR): GDPR is a European Union regulation that governs data protection and privacy for individuals within the EU and the European Economic Area (EEA). It imposes strict requirements on how organizations collect, process, and protect personal data and grants individuals greater control over their personal information.
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA): HIPAA is a United States federal law that establishes privacy and security standards for protected health information (PHI). It applies to healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses, as well as their business associates, and mandates safeguards to protect the confidentiality and integrity of PHI.
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS): PCI DSS is a set of security standards established by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council (PCI SSC) to protect payment card data and ensure secure transactions. It applies to merchants, service providers, and other entities that handle credit card information and mandates requirements for data encryption, access controls, and network security.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX): SOX is a United States federal law enacted to enhance corporate accountability and transparency in financial reporting. It requires public companies to establish and maintain internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, auditing, and disclosure to prevent fraud and protect investors.
Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA): FISMA is a United States federal law that establishes cybersecurity requirements for federal agencies to protect information and information systems. It mandates agencies to develop, implement, and maintain risk-based cybersecurity programs to safeguard sensitive data and critical infrastructure.
ISO 27001: Information Security Management System (ISMS): ISO 27001 is an international standard that sets requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining, and continuously improving an information security management system (ISMS). It provides a framework for organizations to identify, assess, and manage information security risks effectively.
Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP): FedRAMP is a United States government program that standardizes the security assessment, authorization, and monitoring of cloud service providers (CSPs) to ensure the security of federal government data in the cloud. It establishes security requirements and controls for cloud systems used by federal agencies.		International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Standards: Various ISO standards, such as ISO 9001 (quality management), ISO 14001 (environmental management), and ISO 45001 (occupational health and safety), provide frameworks for organizations to implement management systems and comply with regulatory requirements in specific domains.
Industry-Specific Regulations: In addition to the above standards, industries may have specific regulatory requirements tailored to their unique characteristics and risks. For example, financial institutions must comply with regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Act, Basel III, and SEC regulations, while healthcare organizations must adhere to regulations such as the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act.

DATA STORY TELLING:
Data storytelling is the process of using data to communicate insights, trends, and findings in a compelling and persuasive narrative. Here are some techniques for effective data storytelling:
Know Your Audience: Understand your audience's background, interests, and level of expertise to tailor your data story to their needs and preferences. Adapt your storytelling approach to resonate with your audience and convey relevance and significance.
Identify the Core Message: Determine the key message or insight you want to convey with your data story. Focus on the most important findings or trends and structure your narrative around the central theme to maintain clarity and coherence.
Start with a Hook: Begin your data story with a compelling hook or attention-grabbing introduction to pique curiosity and draw your audience in. Use anecdotes, real-life examples, or provocative questions to spark interest and set the stage for the rest of the story.
Use Visualizations: Incorporate data visualizations, such as charts, graphs, maps, and infographics, to illustrate key points and trends in your data. Choose visualizations that are clear, concise, and relevant to enhance understanding and engagement with your audience.
Provide Context: Provide context and background information to help your audience understand the significance and implications of the data. Explain the data sources, methodology, and any relevant assumptions or limitations to ensure transparency and credibility.
Tell a Narrative: Craft a narrative arc or storyline that guides your audience through the data story from beginning to end. Use storytelling techniques, such as character development, plot progression, and conflict resolution, to create a compelling and memorable narrative.Highlight Insights: Highlight key insights, trends, and findings in your data to convey the main message of your story. Use storytelling devices, such as anecdotes, metaphors, or analogies, to contextualize the data and make it more relatable and meaningful to your audience.
Engage Emotionally: Appeal to your audience's emotions by connecting the data to real-world consequences, challenges, or opportunities. Use storytelling elements, such as humor, suspense, or empathy, to evoke emotional responses and foster empathy and connection with your audience.
Use Simple Language: Use clear, concise language and avoid jargon or technical terms that may confuse or alienate your audience. Translate complex data concepts into simple, accessible language to ensure that your message is easily understood and relatable.
End with a Call to Action: Conclude your data story with a clear call to action or takeaway message that prompts your audience to reflect on the insights presented and take meaningful action. Encourage your audience to apply the lessons learned from the data story to inform decision-making or drive change.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
difference between data stewardship and data quality auditor

Data stewardship and data quality auditing are both important aspects of managing and ensuring the quality of data within an organization. However, they have distinct roles and responsibilities.

Data Stewardship: Data stewardship involves the management and governance of data assets throughout their lifecycle. Data stewards are responsible for overseeing the creation, collection, storage, and usage of data within an organization. Their main focus is on data governance, data quality, and ensuring compliance with data regulations and policies. They work closely with various stakeholders to define data standards, establish data management processes, and resolve data-related issues. Data stewards are also responsible for data security, privacy, and access control.

Data Quality Auditor: A data quality auditor, on the other hand, is primarily focused on assessing and evaluating the quality of data within an organization. Their role involves conducting audits and inspections of data to identify any inconsistencies, errors, or issues that may impact data integrity or reliability. Data quality auditors use various techniques and tools to measure and assess data quality, such as data profiling, data cleansing, and data validation. They analyze data against predefined quality criteria and standards to ensure accuracy, completeness, consistency, and timeliness. The findings and recommendations from data quality audits help organizations improve their data management processes and maintain high-quality data.

In summary, while data stewards are responsible for the overall management and governance of data, data quality auditors focus specifically on evaluating and improving the quality of data through audits and inspections. Both roles are essential for maintaining reliable and trustworthy data within an organization.

What are some common techniques used by data quality auditors to assess data quality?

Data quality auditors use various techniques and methodologies to assess the quality of data within an organization. Some common techniques and approaches used by data quality auditors include:

Data Profiling: Data profiling involves analyzing and examining the structure, content, and characteristics of data to identify any anomalies, inconsistencies, or issues. It helps auditors understand the data quality problems and assess the overall health of the data.
Data Cleansing: Data cleansing is the process of identifying and correcting or removing errors, duplicates, inaccuracies, and inconsistencies in the data. Data quality auditors may use data cleansing tools and techniques to improve the accuracy and reliability of the data.
Data Validation: Data validation involves checking the accuracy, completeness, and consistency of data against predefined rules, constraints, or benchmarks. Auditors may perform data validation checks to ensure that the data meets the required standards and criteria.
Data Sampling: Data sampling involves selecting a representative subset of data for analysis and assessment. Auditors may use statistical sampling techniques to extract a portion of the data and evaluate its quality. This helps in identifying patterns, trends, and potential issues within the larger dataset.
Data Quality Metrics: Data quality auditors use predefined metrics or key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure and evaluate data quality. These metrics can include dimensions such as accuracy, completeness, consistency, timeliness, and uniqueness. Auditors assess the data against these metrics to identify areas of improvement.
Data Quality Rules: Data quality auditors establish and enforce data quality rules or standards that define the acceptable quality criteria for the data. These rules are used to assess the data and identify any violations or deviations from the defined standards.
Data Governance Framework: Data quality auditors often work within a data governance framework that outlines the policies, processes, and roles for managing data quality. They ensure compliance with the governance framework and assess the effectiveness of data management practices.
By employing these techniques, data quality auditors can effectively assess the quality of data, identify areas for improvement, and support data-driven decision-making within an organization.

How do data quality auditors enforce data quality rules within an organization?

Data quality auditors play a crucial role in enforcing data quality rules within an organization. Here are some common methods they use to ensure adherence to data quality rules:

Establishing Data Quality Standards: Data quality auditors work with stakeholders to define and establish data quality standards and rules. These standards specify the required levels of accuracy, completeness, consistency, timeliness, and other relevant dimensions of data quality. These rules serve as benchmarks against which data is evaluated.
Conducting Data Quality Assessments: Auditors regularly perform data quality assessments to evaluate the compliance of data with the established rules. They analyze the data, identify any deviations or violations, and assess the impact of these issues on data quality. This helps in identifying areas of improvement and implementing corrective actions.
Implementing Data Quality Controls: Auditors collaborate with data management teams to implement data quality controls and mechanisms. These controls can include automated checks, validation rules, data profiling tools, and data cleansing processes. By implementing these controls, auditors can proactively monitor and enforce data quality rules.
Data Governance and Policies: Data quality auditors work closely with data governance teams to ensure that data quality rules are integrated into the organization's data governance framework. They participate in the development and enforcement of data governance policies and procedures, which help in maintaining data quality standards.
Providing Training and Awareness: Auditors conduct training sessions and awareness programs to educate employees about data quality rules and the importance of adhering to them. They provide guidance on data entry practices, data handling procedures, and the significance of maintaining data accuracy and integrity.
Monitoring and Reporting: Auditors continuously monitor data quality metrics and generate reports to track the compliance of data with the established rules. They identify trends, patterns, and recurring issues to understand the overall data quality status. These reports provide insights to stakeholders and enable them to take corrective actions.
Collaboration and Communication: Auditors work collaboratively with various departments and stakeholders to ensure data quality. They engage in regular communication, provide feedback, and address concerns related to data quality. By fostering collaboration, auditors help in creating a culture of data quality consciousness within the organization.
By employing these enforcement methods, data quality auditors promote and maintain high standards of data quality within an organization, leading to reliable and trustworthy data for decision-making and operational activities.

What type of data quality controls and mechanisms do auditors collaborate with data management teams to implement?

Data quality auditors collaborate with data management teams to implement various controls and mechanisms to ensure data quality. Here are some common types:

Data Validation Rules: Auditors work with data management teams to define and implement validation rules that check the integrity and accuracy of data. These rules validate data against predefined criteria or patterns, ensuring that it meets the required standards. For example, validating email addresses, checking for numeric values within a specified range, or verifying data formats.
Data Profiling: Data profiling tools are used to analyze the content and structure of data to identify anomalies, inconsistencies, and data quality issues. Auditors collaborate with data management teams to implement data profiling techniques that examine data patterns, uniqueness, completeness, and referential integrity. This helps in identifying data quality problems and initiating corrective actions.
Data Cleansing: Auditors work with data management teams to implement data cleansing processes. These processes involve identifying and correcting or removing errors, inconsistencies, duplicates, and inaccuracies in the data. Data cleansing techniques may include standardization, deduplication, error correction, and data enrichment to improve data quality.
Data Monitoring: Auditors collaborate on implementing data monitoring mechanisms to continuously track the quality of data. This involves setting up automated processes that regularly monitor data inputs, updates, and changes. By monitoring data in real-time or at regular intervals, auditors can identify and address data quality issues promptly.
Data Governance Framework: Auditors work with data management teams to establish a data governance framework that includes data quality controls. This framework defines roles, responsibilities, policies, and procedures for managing data quality. It ensures that data quality rules are integrated into the organization's data management processes and are consistently enforced.
Metadata Management: Metadata provides essential information about the characteristics, structure, and meaning of data. Auditors collaborate with data management teams to implement metadata management practices that help in understanding and assessing data quality. By documenting metadata standards, ensuring metadata consistency, and providing metadata governance, auditors contribute to data quality improvement.
Data Documentation and Data Dictionary: Auditors collaborate on implementing data documentation practices, including maintaining a data dictionary. A data dictionary serves as a centralized repository of data definitions, business rules, and data quality requirements. It helps in ensuring consistent understanding and interpretation of data across the organization.
Data Quality Reporting: Auditors work with data management teams to develop data quality reports that provide insights into the overall data quality status. These reports highlight data quality issues, trends, and metrics, enabling stakeholders to make informed decisions and take corrective actions.
By collaborating on the implementation of these controls and mechanisms, data quality auditors and data management teams can effectively ensure and enforce data quality within an organization.


DATA QUALITY FUNDAMENTALS BOOK
As mentioned in Chapter 3, some common data quality checks include:

Null values
Are any values unknown (NULL)?
Freshness
How up-to-date is my data? Was it updated an hour ago or two months ago?
Volume
How much data is represented by this data set? Did two hundred rows turn into two thousand?
Distribution
Is my data within an accepted range? Are my units the same within a given column?
Missing values
Are any values missing from my data set?

Increasingly, data teams are coming to rely on similar principles of observability and monitoring to track data quality in production pipelines (see Figure 5-1), with companies developing their own unique methodology for how to measure it, depending on the needs of the business.


Figure 5-1. A data pipeline refers to “data in production” and is composed of a data warehouse / lake (or both), ETL, and an analytics layer
Similarly, data observability (i.e., ensuring data quality in the pipeline) can be broken down into five major pillars, as shown in Figure 5-2.


Figure 5-2. The five pillars of data observability
The five pillars of data observability, like the three pillars of application observability, highlight the elements of data health that should be closely monitored as an indicator of high data quality:

Freshness
Is the data recent? When was the last time it was generated? What upstream data is included/omitted?
Distribution
Is the data within accepted ranges? Is it properly formatted? Is it complete?
Volume
Has all the data arrived?
Schema
What is the schema, and how has it changed? Who has made these changes and for what reasons?
Lineage
For a given data asset, what are the upstream sources and downstream assets that are impacted by it? Who are the people generating this data, and who is relying on it for decision making?
The five pillars of data observability serve as key measurements for understanding the health of your data at each stage in its life cycle, and provide a fresh (no pun intended) lens with which to view the quality of your data.

--------------------------------
Data discovery can answer these questions not just for the data’s ideal state but for the current state of the data across each domain:

What data set is most recent? Which data sets can be deprecated?

When was the last time this table was updated?

What is the meaning of a given field in my domain?

Who has access to this data? When was the last time this data was used? By whom?

What are the upstream and downstream dependencies of this data?

Is this production-quality data?

What data matters for my domain’s business requirements?

What are my assumptions about this data, and are they being met?

Data discovery makes it possible for data teams to trust that their assumptions about data match reality, empowering dynamic discovery and a high degree of reliability across your data infrastructure.
--------------------------------

Measuring the ROI on Data Quality
Unreliable data can lead to wasted time, lost revenue, compliance risk, and erosion of customer trust.

--------------------------------

Similarly, SLAs can help data teams and their consumers define, measure, and track data reliability across its life cycle. Setting data reliability SLAs builds trust between your data, your data team, and downstream consumers. Without agreed-upon SLIs, consumers can make inaccurate assumptions or look to anecdotal evidence about the reliability of your data. With SLOs in place, your organization can become more “data-driven” about data.

Step 1: Defining data reliability with SLAs

Setting SLAs first requires agreeing upon and clearly defining what reliable data means to your business. We recommend starting this process by conducting an inventory of your data, how it’s being used, and by whom—assessing the historical performance of your data to get a baseline metric of reliability.

Step 2: Measuring data reliability with SLIs

SLIs will vary based on your specific use case, but here are a few examples of metrics often used to quantify data health:
The number of data incidents for a particular data asset (N)
This may be beyond your control for external data sources, but it is still a key driver of data downtime and typically worth measuring.
The frequency with which a critical table is updated
If an important table should be updated every 10 hours or less, you—and your data consumers—should know.
The expected distribution for a given data set
If your distribution falls outside the standard range, this could indicate an issue outside of your control (maybe sales were just really high that day?), but it’s likely worth looking into.

Step 3: Tracking data reliability with SLOs

Once SLIs are identified, you can set objectives, or ranges of acceptable downtime for your data. These SLOs should be based on your real-world circumstances—for example, if you decide to track TTD but don’t use automated monitoring tools, your SLO should be more generous than a mature organization with robust data observability tooling.

Setting these ranges makes it possible to create a uniform framework that rates incidents by level of severity and makes it easy to respond swiftly when issues occur. With these objectives set and incorporated into your SLAs, you can build dashboards that track and report on progress—either custom, ad hoc solutions or using dedicated data observability tools.

Fixing Quality Issues in Software Development

The DevOps life cycle incorporates eight sections, or continuous stages, including:

Plan
The dev team aligns with product and business teams to understand the goals and SLAs for your software.
Code
Write new software.
Build
Release your software into a test environment.
Test
Test your software.
Release
Release the software to production.
Deploy
Integrate and deploy the software with your existing applications.
Operate
Run the software, adjust as necessary.
Monitor
Monitor and alert for issues in the software.

ROOT CAUSE ANALYSIS>

Ask yourself:

Is the data wrong for all records? For some records?

Is the data wrong for a particular time period?

Is the data wrong for a particular subset or segment of the data, e.g., only your Android users or only orders from France?

Are there new segments of the data (that your code doesn’t account for yet) or missing segments (that your code relies on)?

Has the schema changed recently in a way that might explain the problem?

Have your numbers changed from dollars to cents? Your timestamps from PST to EST?

And the list goes on.

What data exists?

Who needs this data?

Where is this data flowing to/from?

What purpose does this data serve?

Is there a way to make it easier to work with/access this data?

Is this data compliant and/or actionable?

How can we make data more useful to more people at the company, faster?

How do you measure the data quality of the assets your company collects and stores?

What are the key KPIs or goals you’re going to hold your data quality strategy accountable for meeting?

Do you have cross-functional involvement from leadership and data users in other parts of the company?

Who at the company will be held accountable for meeting your strategy’s KPIs and goals?

What checks and balances do you have to ensure KPIs are measured correctly and goals can be met?


Prioritize data quality and reliability
One key component of approaching data as a product is applying standards of rigor to the entire ecosystem, from ingestion to consumer-facing data deliverables. As we discussed in the context of storytelling earlier, this means prioritizing data quality and reliability throughout the data life cycle. Companies can assess their current state of data quality by mapping their progress against the data reliability maturity curve. Briefly, this model (see Figure 8-1) suggests there are four main stages of data reliability:

Reactive
Teams spend a majority of their time responding to fire drills and triaging data issues—resulting in a lack of progress on important initiatives, an organizational struggle to use data effectively in their product, machine learning algorithms, or business decision making.
Proactive
Teams collaborate actively between engineering, data engineering, data analysts, and data scientists to develop manual checks and custom QA queries to validate their work. Examples might include validating row counts in critical stages of the pipelines or tracking timestamps to ensure data freshness. Slack messages or email alerts still pop up when things go wrong, but these teams do catch many issues through their proactive testing.
Automated
At this level, teams prioritize reliable, accurate data through scheduled validation queries that deliver broader coverage of pipelines. Teams use data health dashboards to view issues, troubleshoot, and provide status updates to others in the organization. Examples include tracking and storing metrics about dimensions and measures to observe trends and changes, or monitoring and enforcing schema at the ingestion stage.
Scalable
These teams draw on proven DevOps concepts to institute a staging environment, reusable components for validation, and/or hard and soft alerts for data errors. With substantial coverage of mission-critical data, the team can resolve most issues before they impact downstream users. Examples include anomaly detection across all key metrics and tooling that allows every job and table to be monitored and tracked for quality.


Align Your Product’s Goals with the Goals of the Business

What services or products drive revenue growth?

What data do these services or products collect?

What do we need to do with the data before we can use it?

Which teams need this data? What will they do with it?

Who will have access to this data or the analytics it generates?

How quickly do these users need access to this data?

What, if any, compliance or governance checks does the platform need to address?






Seven Steps to Implementing a Data Certification Program
Data certification programs increase scalability by leveraging a consistent approach applied across multiple domains. They also increase efficiency by facilitating more trustworthy exchanges of information between domains with clear lines of communication.

Here’s how it works.

Step 1: Build out your data observability capabilities
Implementing data observability—an organization’s ability to fully understand the health of the data in their system—is an important first step in the data certification process. Not only do you need insight into your current performance to set a baseline, but you also need a systemic end-to-end approach for proactive incident discovery, alerting, and triaging as shown in Figure 8-6. Powered by observability, a data incident dashboard automatically surfaces anomalies, schema changes, deleted tables, and rule breaches.

If anything within the pipeline breaks—and it will break—you will be the first to know. This head start, along with a detailed understanding of the data ecosystem, will reduce time to detection and resolution by pinpointing where errors occur.


Figure 8-6. Data incident dashboard
Knowing what systems and data sets have a tendency to create the largest or most frequent problems downstream also helps inform the process of writing effective data SLAs (Step 4). Additionally, understanding the upstream dependencies of your most important tables or reports helps data teams understand what data to give the most attention. The bottom line is that a table or data set should be closely monitored for anomalies (ideally continuously learning and evolving via machine learning) to be considered certified.

Step 2: Determine your data owners
Each certified data asset should have a responsible party across its life cycle from the ingestion to analytics layer as shown in Figure 8-7. Modern metadata management tools allow data owners to be assigned to tables along with other tags, helping them keep tabs on the reliability of critical data sets.


Figure 8-7. Responsible parties should be assigned for each layer
Some data teams may choose to implement a RACI matrix; others may build it directly into the specific SLA along with the expected communication procedures and resolution times.

Step 3: Understand what “good” data looks like
By asking your business stakeholders the “who, what, when, where, and why,” you can understand what data quality means to them and which data is actually the most important. This will enable you to develop key performance indicators such as:

Freshness

Data will be refreshed by 8:00 a.m. daily (great for cases where the CEO or other key executives are checking their dashboards at 8:30 a.m.).

Data will never be older than X hours.

Distribution

Column X will never be null.

Column Y will always be unique.

Field X will always be equal to or greater than field Y.

Volume

Table X will never decrease in size.

Schema

No fields will be deleted on this table.

Lineage

100% of the data populating table X will have upstream sources and downstream ingestors mapped and include relevant metadata.

Data downtime (or availability)

The number of incidents multiplied by (time to detection + time to resolution). An example of a data downtime SLA could be table X will have less than Y hours of downtime a year.

SLAs that measure each of the components of data downtime can be more actionable. Examples include we will reduce our incidents X%, time to detection X%, and time to resolution X%.

Query speed

Our friends at Locally Optimistic suggest: “Average query run time is a good place to start, but you may need to create a more nuanced metric (e.g., X% of queries finish in <Y seconds).”

Ingestion (great for keeping external partners accountable)

Data will be received by 5 a.m. each morning from partner Y.

This process also enables you to configure granular alerting rules tailored to what matters most to the business.

Step 4: Set clear SLAs, SLOs, and SLIs for your most important data sets
As highlighted in Chapter 6, setting SLAs for your data pipeline is a major step toward increasing your data reliability and is essential to a data certification program. SLAs must be specific, measurable by an SLO and SLI, and achievable.

Not only do SLAs describe an agreed-upon standard of service, they define the relationship between parties. In other words, they outline who is responsible for what during normal operations as well as when issues occur.

In our discussions with Brandon Beidel, a Senior Data Scientist with Red Ventures, he suggested that an effective SLA is realistic. Simply saying “having reliable data at all times” is too vague to be useful; instead, Brandon suggested, teams should set SLAs that are focused: “Good SLAs are specific and detailed. They will describe why it’s important to the business, what the expectations are, when those expectations need to be met, how they will be met, where the data lives, and who is impacted by it.”

Beidel includes within his SLAs how the team should respond if the SLA isn’t met. For example, the “data in table X will be refreshed every day by 8:00 a.m.” will transform into, “Team Z will ensure the data in table X will be refreshed every day by 8:00 a.m. Within two hours of an anomaly alert, the team will verify, communicate to affected parties, and begin a root cause analysis of the issue. Within one business day a ticket will be created and the wider team will be updated on the progress made toward resolution.”

To achieve this level of specificity and organization, teams should align early—and often—with stakeholders to understand what good data looks like. That includes within the data team as well as the business. A good SLA needs to be informed by the realities of how the business operates and how your users consume the data.

Beidel takes a slightly different approach and differentiates between what he considers the SLA of “Table x will be updated by 8 a.m.” and the SLO of “We will aim to meet this SLA 99% of the time.” However you decide to approach it, he recommends against boiling the ocean. Most of his customers are implementing their data certification programs as “go forward” first and cleaning up older assets in a second wave.

In fact, many of the best data teams will start certifying the most critical tables and data sets: the ones that add the most value to the business, have the most query activity, number of users, or dependencies. Some are also implementing tiers of certification—bronze, silver, gold—that convey different levels of service and support.

Step 5: Develop your communication and incident management processes
Where and how will alerts be sent to the team? How will next steps and progress be communicated internally and externally? While this may seem like table stakes, clear and transparent communication is essential to creating a culture of accountability.

Many teams opt to have alerts and incident triage discussions take place in Slack, PagerDuty, or Microsoft Teams. This enables rapid coordination while giving full transparency to the wider team as part of a healthy incident management workflow, as discussed in Chapter 6.

It’s also important to consider how to communicate major outages to the rest of the organization. For example, if an alert turns out to be a huge production outage, how does the on-call engineer inform the rest of the company? Where do they make that announcement and how frequently do they provide updates?

Step 6: Determine a mechanism to tag the data as certified
At this point, you have created SLAs with measurable objectives, transparent ownership, clear communication processes, and strong issue resolution expectations. You have the tools and proactive measures in place to empower your teams to be successful. The final step is to certify and surface the approved data assets for your stakeholders.

We recommend decentralizing the certification process. After all, the certification process is designed to help make teams faster and more scalable. Having centralized regulations, enacted at the domain level, will achieve these goals and avoid creating too much red tape. For the certification process, data teams will tag, search, and leverage their tables appropriately using either data discovery solutions, a home-grown tool, or some other form of data catalog.

Step 7: Train your data team and downstream consumers
Of course, just because tables are tagged as certified doesn’t guarantee analysts will stay in bounds. The team will need to be trained in the proper procedures, which will need to be enforced as necessary. Fine-tuning the level of alerts and communication is important as well.

Occasionally receiving alerts that don’t require action is healthy. For example, you may have a table that grows significantly in size, but it was expected because the team added a new data source. Nothing is broken and in need of fixing, but it’s still helpful for the team to know. After all, “expected” behavior to one person might still be newsworthy and critical to another member of the team—or even another domain.

However, alert fatigue is real. If the team is starting to ignore alerts, it can be a sign to optimize your approach by either adjusting your monitors or bifurcating communication channels to better surface the most important information.

When it comes to your data consumers, don’t be shy! You have put in an incredibly robust system for data quality aligned to their needs. Help them move from a subjective to objective understanding of how your team is performing and start giving them the vocabulary to be part of the solution.

Data certification can be a beautiful process to see in action. The data engineer tags the table as certified along with the owner of the data set, and surfaces it within the data warehouse for an analyst to grab it and use in their dashboard. And voila! No more (or at least, a whole lot less) data downtime.

At its core, this process underscores that without the proper processes and culture in place, certifying reliability and building organizational trust in your data is extremely difficult. Technology will never be a replacement for good data hygiene, but it certainly helps.

Second perhaps only to implementing a data certification program with clear SLAs, modern data teams can best navigate the cultural and organizational hurdles of data quality by prioritizing a team structure that plays to the strengths and needs of their business.